model ages I'm going to show you how to
use the keyboard editor to create
patterns in FL Studio there's more than
one way to turn notes on and off in the
step sequencer in FL Studio one way of
course is to click sequence step buttons
and the track and that turns the notes
on and off but you can't specify the
pitch so that's great for programming
drums but if you want to do melodic
phrase it's not going to work so the
keyboard editor allows you to add pitch
to the notes in the step sequencer it
also allows you to add slide and
portamento effects and I'm going to
explain that a little further in the
tutorial and it allows you to quickly
drag a whole group of notes up and down
the keyboard so to illustrate this let's
add a channel to our existing project
and i'm going to add wasp xt and we're
going to use this instrument to create a
baseline so first i need to select the
channel then i'm going to turn the
keyboard editor on by pressing this
button and you'll see a keyboard pops up
under the channel i'm working on for
each step in the sequence there's a
corresponding keyboard where I can turn
notes on and off so to turn a note on
you simply left-click on the keyboard
where you want the note to appear I'm
going to create a simple eighth note
pattern
so bright orange indicates that a note
is active if you see this is opaque that
indicates that a note is inactive now
you can use the keyboard editor in
conjunction with the sequence step
buttons and they work together so if I
were to turn this step on using a
sequence step button you'll see that the
inactive note now becomes active of
course I can move the note let's hit
play
and if I clear this note by
right-clicking you'll see that it
becomes inactive so these two interfaces
for turning notes on and off work
together let's get back to recording our
baseline I'm going to take the second
note and play it an octave up from where
it is and now we have a simple baseline
but it's in the wrong octave so what I
want to do is take this all these notes
at the same time and drag them down two
octaves so I can get more in the pitch
range of a baseline so to do this hold
the control key down on your computer
keyboard and then left click on any note
in the pattern and then drag the pattern
down to the desired location now we have
something that's much more like a
baseline now I mentioned a few minutes
ago slide and portamento and the
keyboard editor has something called a
slide portamento line this line right
here and it allows you to turn
portamento on for a note so you left
click to turn portamento on and you
right click to turn it off and what
portamento is is when we go from this
note to this note instead of it being
too discreet notes you're going to hear
the pitch slide from one to the other so
to illustrate this I'm going to go on
another octave up for this note and then
I'm going to turn on portamento and now
you hear it slide I'm going to slow the
tempo down a little bit so you can hear
it a little more dramatically here at
slide now I'm going to turn it off now
the note just comes on so that's
portamento let's go back to our original
tempo and we'll put our note back down
here
okay so let's add some rhythm to this
track and I'm going to use the sequence
step buttons to do this I'm going to
create a kick drum pattern and hit play
and I'm going to left-click and drag to
create some high hats now I mentioned
before that you can use the sequence
step buttons and the keyboard editor
together to turn notes on and off and
you'll see that I just turned on a whole
bunch of notes here once your high hat
one of the things I can do to make the
high hat pattern more interesting is to
change the pitch of the notes in the
pattern an easy way to do this is to
left-click and drag across the keyboard
editor and paint the pitches for your
high hats and of course as you can hear
I get real time feedback on the notes
that I'm turning on so let's check out
this pattern now it sounds a lot more
interesting and it's something that's
really cool to just mess around with a
let me draw some and of course you can
right-click and turn a few notes off
so as you can see the keyboard editor
allows you to go beyond what you can do
by sequencing with just the sequence
step buttons you can add pitch to your
notes you can add portamento and you can
also quickly grab entire groups of notes
by hitting your control key on your
keyboard and then dragging the pattern
up and down in the keyboard